All right, this looks a little more like what I
remember. Yeah, all right. Hi, everybody. Hmm. So
I only got like 20 minutes, but I know I said I
would do this once in a while, so here we are. I'm
sitting in my office and I came to get some of my
supplies because I have to do some prep for a
gnome druid, a gnome cleric, a gnome rogue, and a
human monk for my seven-year-old daughter's first
game. I don't have a ton of time time to do this,
but I'll probably try to do it like once every
other month, maybe. Anyway, questions. Throw them
at me. "What are your thoughts on the 50th
"episode?" I hope that there are 250 more. I love
doing the show; it's one of the highlights of my
week. I do it with my favorite people. Life and
work get hectic. I think the reason all of us are
drawn to it is it gives us a little time to break
away. What is RWBY? Would I ever consider voicing
something on RWBY? I don't know what it is! My
kids have seen snippets of the show. I think
we're-- for my taste, it's a little too blue for
them. They're young, but I have
pre-screened parts of it and shown them stuff. I
showed them a little bit of a goblin game the
other day because I thought they'd get a kick out
of that. My dagger collection is quite big. I'll
show you. It's up here. My nerd shelf. There's
battle cap being ridden by Nightcrawler, but up
here out of reach of little hands are multiple
daggers. There's the brand-new one from this past
episode. Yeah, they're all up here. By the way,
Matt Mercer has totally corrupted me and I'll
show you what I mean by that. Do do do. We're not
done! (sings tune to Isengard theme) Yeah. So I'm
not quite as addicted as Matt is, but I'm getting
there this year. My kids-- put that back at my
desk. Biggest advice is a tad-- I don't know, man.
I don't know. I don't know if there's an answer to
that. Just try, try your best. Can I come to a con
in Ontario? Well, me coming alone or us coming as
a group are two different things. I'm probably
more likely these days to go to a convention with
the group. I don't go to many conventions because
I don't like leaving my family that much and now I
want to go with the CR game. Then the problem with
getting all of us to a convention is you got to
get all of us and we have crazy schedules, so
we'll definitely hit some conventions; not a
million, because the stars have to align, but
we'll get out when we can. I have not considered
recording my kids' games. There's a level of
privacy I'd like to keep for my own life and my
family. So that'll just be a home deal. Let me
see. "Are you going to Denver Comic Con with the
"crew?" If we have plans, they'll be announced by
the con. What is my favorite mini? Oh gosh. What's
my favorite mini? Do you even have to ask? Here he
is. Send all your advice to him. Coming back.
Okay. "Podcast soon?" Yeah, podcast soon. Sam and
I talk about it all the time, even though we don't
do it. We do want to do it and now I have gift
certificates to Swordplay LA, so Sam and I'll get
our butts over there and whack each other. I
guess. Let's see. I like being a rogue in the
game. Yes, that's what I gravitated towards most.
I like that Vex jumped into the rogue pool. I
think it's really cool how she ranged for so long,
and then leaned into the rogue, which is where she
wanted to start, anyway. How much fan art in gigs
do I have from the Critters? I don't know. I mean,
I could probably figure that out. It's a lot.
Hello, Montana. Hello, Wisconsin. If you asked a
question and I didn't answer it, chances are I
didn't see it while I was answering another
questions, so feel free to toss it out again. Good,
more rogues, cdoh_. The podcast. Someone was
asking about the podcast I do with Sam. The
podcast is why Critical Role exists. The podcast
was a show that Sam and I did semi-regularly a
couple years back. We keep it alive every once in
a while, but where we talked about being
overworked, busy dads with no time to do goofy
shit, the two of us. Early in that short-lived
run-- it's still going, technically-- but we
pulled people together to do D&D and it just went
from there. Let me see. "How does Vax feel about
"Vex's new perspective on death?" I don't know, it
just happened. Well, I mean, what Liam thinks is
different than what Vax thinks for all these
characters. I don't know. Sometimes I feel like
weeks are going by on these episodes and whether
you guys really realize it or not, I think you
feel like these characters have lived with these
decisions in these events the same amount of time
that's passed between episode 41 and episode 50,
but we're talking-- Vex died-- I don't know
exactly-- but it's been within a week. Still
pretty fresh. Who I think will almost die next?
Oh, everybody. I think where Matt's taking us into
dangerous territory now, so I think the stakes are
raised. "What would your advice be to someone who
wanted to start playing D&D?" Just buy a Player's
Handbook and try to find people. I've done a
little bit of remote, as you've seen, and I've
done plenty in-person. Remote is better than
nothing. In-person's better than remote just
because that split second of improvisation-- the
delay can hurt things a little bit or slow it down
a little bit. But again, I would rather play
remotely than not play. "DM advice?" I have no DM
advice because I am still riding with training
wheels on. I get a lot of requests probably from
some people in this Periscope right now saying,
"You should you should do a Periscope-- you should
"DM a one shot!" With the amount of pile-on that
Matt gets for occasional decisions and Matt knows
everything. He knows everything and he still
gets piled on for occasional decisions. I am
fudging it, and winging it, and making it up as I
go. I'm brand new, guys, and I'm doing it was with
a seven-year-old group and a nine-year-old group,
so I don't think I'm quite ready for primetime.
Give me a year to cut my teeth, maybe. It's fun.
My kids love it; both of my kids love it. I can't
wait till Romper Stomper-- which is my nickname
for my daughter-- Romper Stomper and her three
friends play on Sunday. I really can't wait. Let's
see. "BlizzCon this year again?" I assume. I don't
know if I'll officially be there, but I try to go
even when I'm not. "Do Matt Colville's tips help
you?" Yes, because I've watched Matt Mercer do it
for three years, but I haven't listened to Matt
Mercer talk about it for three years. Matt
Colville crystallized a lot of things that I think
that Matt does as well, so it was a good added
perspective and that guy's just sharp as a tack
and fun to listen to. I met him working on the
game Evolve. He's the writer on that game and I
directed the lion's share of the voiceover on it
and we just became friends even before Critical
Role and we talked a little bit of D&D. Then
because he knew we were playing around. Good guy.
"Is D&D ever stressful?" Yeah, sometimes.
Sometimes it's stressful getting ready for the
game. I can really empathize for Matt just from
preparing my children's games. Then anytime anyone
dies because it's not real, it's a game-- but
let's say Vex or Vax were to die, the faux sibling
relationship that Laura and I have had for for
this long is an important and meaningful part of
my life. If one of us dies, we'll reroll another
character and rejoin, but it won't be the same. It
could grow into being something just as good, but
it won't be the same. It's this thing that I've
had with Laura for three years. It's just like
finishing a really good book: you don't want to
get to the end, but then you do. It'll happen
eventually. (imitates crying) "Whose death would
"hit me the hardest?" I don't know. "Does the show
ever feel like a job and less like a hobby?"
Behind the scenes, a little bit because we're
spinning a lot of plates to make it go. But no,
the games feel great. Gosh, I guess I'll mention
this here because enough time has passed. The game
has been like therapy for me for for this entire
time because my mom battled cancer for the past
couple of years and it got ugly at the end. She
passed away couple months ago, so the funeral was
me. Some of you know that a funeral happened: that
was me. So I don't want to dwell on it because
it's private and I'm making my peace with it, but
this group of friends for me is just really dear
to me. The game and their company has lifted me
up. So again, I don't want to I don't want to drop
down into despair. It was hard and occasionally
still is hard, but it's universal, we all go
through it. We'll move on from it. Yeah, it's
okay, thank you, guys. She was-- she was a great
woman. Do I intentionally try to make people cry?
No, I don't. You do know now, though, a lot of
what was probably feeding me under the surface for
the last year or so. Things got-- I don't know.
Let's lighten it up. What other lighter questions
do you have? "Did you check with Matt before
"letting Vax fall in love with Keyleth?" Yeah, I
talked about this on a Periscope with Matt and
Marisha, actually, a month or two ago. I
definitely did. Some of you already know, but in
the Underdark portion show Marisha did something--
I honestly don't remember what it was at this
point-- but she did something that I thought was
was touching and it just put the idea in my head.
I thought, "Oh, is that something you could even?"
Because for the two years at home, I'd never had
any notion or thought or inkling at all. Just
because of something that happened in one episode,
I'm going, "Oh, I wonder if you could do that the
game. I don't know. Would it be weird with that?
"This is a game. It's acting, sort of, sort of
isn't. I don't know." So I talked to him about it
and I said, "If that's something that you don't
want me to do, I do not have to do it, and we'll
"sweep it under the rug. Forget it." And even when
he was supportive and to this day, like one of the
most supportive people for Vaxleth with has been
Matt. Behind the scenes, has told me that he loves
the story that we're carving out together. But I
wasn't sure I wanted to do it because I didn't
know. There's never been a D&D show quite like
this before. Who does publicly live on the
Internet the faux relationship with half elves. I
don't know, so I kicked around the idea in the
background and after talking to Matt said maybe
I'll do it and maybe I won't. Just put my toe in,
put another toe in and then it felt like it's
going to be okay and so on forward. I played
Juliet once. I pretended to be in love with a dude
who whose breath smelled like ham. It's just
acting, guys. "What's your-- wait." Oh boy, this
is going fast. It's going fast. "What was it like
shooting the new Critical Role opening?" Oh my
gosh, it was the best. The hair, though, the long
wig that they got somewhere and glued to my head
got caught on everything. It got caught in my
mouth, they got caught on the buttons of my
clothes, it got caught on doors as I walked
through them. Loved the outfit and loved seeing
everybody come to life, loved watching Sam gyrate.
I saw Sam do a lot of things you haven't seen yet.
It was the best. "Any advice for voice acting?"
Yes: study acting, learn how to act, go to where
the work is, hit your head on the wall for ten
years and figure it out and that's the that's the
truest advice there is. "Did you guys keep your
"intro costumes?" Pieces of it. A lot of stuff was
loaners from other people, but I have a lot of
stuff. Do I enjoy DMing my son's group?
Absolutely! I loved scaring their pants off. I'm
doing the the starter set. I think I'm going to
start just making it up for my daughter after this
because it's easy to remember your own stuff. With
the books, I'm flipping around. I'll probably jump
back and forth, but there is a youngish dragon in
that starter set. Yeah, scared the bejesus out of
them. I knocked one of them down. I'm nerfing
everything. At least for the first year, if not
for much longer, no one's going to die. The most
they'll ever do is fall unconscious and I will
fudge the dice rolls because I'm not going to make
nine-year-old boys cry. It's supposed to be fun
for them. Let me see. "What was your favorite fan
gifts for Critmas?" Gosh, okay. I'm not going to
answer that one, just because I don't want-- a lot
of cool stuff and a lot of touching stuff and a
lot of handmade stuff. I don't want to say this
and then everyone else go, "Aw!" So I guess I'll
skip that one. "Are there outtakes for the new
intro?" Probably somewhere, but I don't have
access to them. "Thoughts on Grog's near-death?" I
don't want Grog to die! I don't want anybody to
die. I don't want Percy to die, as much as there's
friction between those two. Gosh, I just didn't
roll high enough with Raven Queen last week, guys.
Let's see. The code for free shipping is-- I can't
remember. "What did Pike learn from her insight
check on Vax?" You'll have to watch to find that
out or not find out. I don't know if you will. "Is
the bromance growing between Vax and Grog?" I
think the bromance has already always been there,
but like brothers, sometimes they really lean on
each other and other times they want to punch each
other. "Do you think Craven Edge will come back to
"haunt the group?" I don't know. There's a lot of
things that could come back to haunt us. Me,
specifically, there's a rakshasa, there're hags,
bad decisions in general. No, you cannot send me
100 pounds of fudge. Something came in the mail,
guys, with this last round of Critmas and
everything didn't show up in two weeks, it showed
up over months. Somebody sent food and it was
rotten. It smelled bad. So food, probably not a
good idea. Let me see. "Read anything good
"lately?" I just finished reading, I didn't finish
it, I've been reading a comic called-- what's it
called? Harrow Country? It's an Appalachian horror
comic. Must be Harrow Country. "How does Vax feel
"about polyamory?" Guys, come on. I'll stay for
like five more minutes, by the way, because I have
to draw on maps and I plan some stuff. "Which twin
is older?" I'm the older twin by five minutes. I
snuck out early. Did I see Acquisitions, Inc.? I
didn't watch the most recent. I've been too busy.
I probably will. I don't know how soon, but I
definitely will watch it sometime in the next
month. I haven't read the Uncanny Adventures yet.
"Are we ever going to see Vax and Gilmore getting
"flirty again?" I don't know. Not at the same
level, probably. Anything specific I want for
Critmas? No, guys, just keep watching the show and
enjoying it. That's what I want for Critmas. Just
keep watching the show and enjoying it. "Read the
Hellboy books yet?" Guys, I've read the Hellboy
books many times, but they live down here now in
that same shelf just below my Vectrex. Do any of
you know what that is? No, 5% of you know what
that is. That was a video game machine in the
early 80s with line graphics. It was not in color.
The color comes from that. I used to do this all
the time as a kid. Something to put back in
there. Careful, there's ninjas. What else do I
have up here? I have the door to my old Castle
Grayskull when I was a kid. I've got some art that
you might recognize there. Some books. There's
Simon, and the poison kit, and my Dragonlance
books from my youth. Those old books are the Lord
of the Rings trilogy, which was the second edition
given to me by Laura and Travis. Here's Asura from
Asura's Wrath that's made of wood. There's a
little Vaxleth art back there. That's the tooth of
a prehistoric shark which I've had since I was a
kid and that's a tie that belonged to my
grandfather who was a bus driver in upstate New
York. You know who that is. What else? There's
that guy. All my nerdy stuff up here which was
boxed away in our last place. Hey, Hellboy. Got
that. Those two. Here is the beginning of my
daughter's group. I need to go to a store tomorrow
and get some. This is my daughter's gnome rogue
and this will be gnome, I don't know, cleric or
druid nobody's painted yet. Here's our monk.
That's one game. Those are my daughter's for her
little game. This is for another game for my kids,
which is just my son and my daughter and he's
playing a dwarven wizard and she's playing an
elven druid. Then my son's game are these three
guys: my son playing the druid in the middle, and
then we've got a rogue dragonborn, and a fire
dragonborn. Yes, I am Vax'ildad, it's true. All
right, I'm going to pick three more questions out
of the ether here, and then I got to go do some
stuff. I'm going to watch for a minute and pick
ones that I like, but it's so fast. I don't know what my
ring size is. I won't count that for the three.
"Are you a fan of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are
"Dead?" Yeah, I'm a huge fan of that play and I
think about it all the time when I work in video
games when I do pain and death sounds because one
of the characters-- so it's Rosencrantz and
Guildenstern. For anyone who doesn't know, it's
the two minor characters from the play Hamlet.
It's a comedy told from their perspective, so
those two guys are stuck waiting to talk to the
prince, waiting to talk to the king and thee
queen, and they meet the Player King who was
an actor, the head of a troupe. That guy goes
on and on saying-- I'm going to paraphrase-- but
like, "Would you want to see a death? We do all
all kinds of death! We do passionate death, sad
"death, tragic death, fiery death!" Any time I'm
screaming and pretending get electrocuted and
pretending to get gutted, I think of that
character in that play. I'm going to wait for the
next two. What do I think if Kynan returns? I
don't know. I mean, if you'd asked me that 12
episodes or so ago, I'm a bad opinion, but there's
so much bigger fish to fry. I'm sure Vax hopes
he's alive. Our game was like a fanciful jaunt up
into the mid 30s, really, and changed a little bit
but then Mercer went (fire breath) and knocked
everything everywhere. I see a lot of stuff like,
"Oh Liam or Vax, so sad!" and I have no doubt that
like at a certain point, he'll probably get
his sea legs again, but it's really been like a
week or two since since everything went completely
upside down and many people he knows were killed
and his sister died in front of him. He made a
deal, I think he took a gamble and tried to
negotiate with a god and it totally blew up in his
face. The way I look at Vax is that his life has
been-- as much as his sister and I are tight as
hell, though life has been kind of crap, what
happened with the dragons was the bottom dropping
out, and then what happened with Vex and the Raven
Queen was what he thought was the bottom dropping
another 50 feet, so I don't know, guys. I'm just
doing what makes sense to me from my point of
view. Last question of the night. Favorite moment
pre-stream. I'll tell you the three moments that
stand out the most. It's a good cop out. One is
the birth of Burt Reynolds, which was us trying to
enter a wizard's tower and Sam ridiculously put
his finger in front of his face and talked his way
through it. It was one of those moments where you
could see in Matt's eyes like, "No, that's not
"going to work, forget it." That's the beauty of
Dungeons & Dragons. Sam rolled a 20 and had to
roll with it, so that was huge. The Pike death was
a huge moment that none of us will ever forget.
We're all like-- I was standing up and I felt like
I was vibrating. Again, it's not real, of course
it's not real, but we had had this relationship
with Ashley and this specific setup between all of
us, this story. If that character were to have
gone we would have missed that dynamic, so
that was that was huge. Then taking down the blue
dragon who may or may not be part of the Chroma
Conclave. We don't know either; only one person
knows that. When he put the mini down, it was the
scariest thing we'd seen on our home table and
there was so much ridiculousness leading up to it
with Grog nuttily dragging coin to the bag of
holding. Then I got the How Do You Want To Do This
on it. I parkoured up a wall, went (shink), and
dragged all the way down and he just toppled and
started knocking the whole place down. We had to
flee and leap out of the teleportation circle we used
to come in. So maybe those three. I bet there's
more that I can't remember if I really thought
about it. Anyway. This is one of my four or
five-ish Periscopes I'll do for the year. I hope
you guys had fun. I now I'm going to go design a
cave full of spiders and drow. So peace,
everybody. Have fun. It's almost Thursday, so I'll
see you soon. Where do they put this thing?